Welcome back.
Let's talk about the solution to this application.
Remember we're making 32 boxes that start with some initial color and then randomly change to a new
color or one of those boxes randomly changed your new color every 300 milliseconds.
And so far I've got my starting code just got a render method and it's got a prop's of all the different
colors that I can choose from.
The first thing I'm going to do is just define a function that will give me another one of those random
colors.
OK.
So there we have it.
It's just a function inside of my component but doesn't really have anything to do with rendering.
But it will look through my props and get me a random color.
Next let's create the constructor.
Now I know that I want to assign state in my constructor and I know I need 32 pieces of state and the
only state that I really care about for each one of these boxes is just what color it is.
So it's just going to be 32 strings.
So this is just my standard constructor.
And now I'm going to create an array with 32 elements in it.
Let's not hard code 32 saw make a constant up here.
OK.
And now to create my array I'll do a little bit of trickery here so I'll make my boxes variable and
then I can use the array constructor to say I want an array with no boxes 32 boxes and then I'll fill
it so that I can use map and then for every element that I map I want to return a random color.
So rather than making a function and invoking this I get random color.
I can just pass the function directly
but the trick there is if I do that this will change the keyword.
This will change to something else when it's invoked within map.
So the second parameter to map is what you want the keyword this to be.
And in this case I want this to be the app component so I'll pass on this.
All right now I have an array with 32 strings that represent color of each box.
Next step is just to create my state.
And again I'm using the object shorthand notation here.
Another way I've got my state set up let's think about creating those boxes.
So just to be lazy I'm going to make a stateless functional component up above here.
So this is the outline of my statelets functional component and I want to return some GSX here that
renders my box and the boxes just a div with some styling.
And the only styling that's going to be variable is the background color.
So actually let me switch this back to using curly braces.
And then inside of here I'll first create a style object
and then I'll grab all these styles
so the width in the height of my box are going to be set.
It's going to be inline block and then I'm going to use the prop except not this I'm going to use the
the color that's passed and for a prop.
So remember this box is going to take in one prop which is the color that box should be.
And we're using that color inside of this style object.
Now all I have to do is return that div with that style.
OK that's all that's my boss component one little trick that I'll add to is that we can actually structure
this prop's objects especially because we know we've only got one prop so I can just say color here
and then I don't have to access Propst color I can just say color there.
So just to point that out you'll see this in Riak code a bunch when you've got a stateless functional
component.
You can just decide what what props you want to take out of the props object.
Now that we've got that component and we've we've got all of our state set up let's iterate over that
state and then turn them into components in our render method so the first thing I want to do is map
over that state and turn it into GSX
and I'll use our box component will need a key because this is going to be a list of boxes and the key
I'll just use.
So I'll use my ID.
I mean I use my index here
and then the color will just be the box.
In fact I should probably name this color so it's more obvious.
This is just the color of the box.
All right.
So now I've got an array of 32 GSX elements.
Now I just want to render it in here.
Now let's take a look what we've got so far.
Oh I've need start my server.
OK.
All right so now you've got 32 boxes but they don't change yet.
So now we have to set up a set airball to change a random box
so back in my constructor all set up that set interval
and I want to do inside of here is choose a random box from that array and then update the color of
just that box.
And remember not to change anything about state directly but only make a copy of the state to be updated.
So let's do that.
And again it's important here to use an arrow function because inside of this callback we're going to
use this set say and we want this to refer to our app.
And so using the error function uses the this in the surrounding context which will be the app component.
First I make a copy of my box's array and then I just want to pick a random index to update.
Now I've got my random index.
Now I just need to change it.
Remember that this is a copy of my box's array and these are just strings so no harm in just directly
updating this new box's array.
OK so I've updated a box a box's color the last step is just to call that state.
All right that should do it.
Let's take a look.
And as you can see we're getting 32 boxes that are randomly changing color.
So that's all in the next section we'll all move into more about state and how state works with the
virtual Dom and with events in Riyadh.
So there's a lot of interesting topics coming up.
Stay tuned.